For any modules that leverage SQL for functionality, assembling and loading SQL
in a deterministically reproducible manner is crucial.

This SQL Assembler (SQLa) and SQL rendering library is a Deno TypeScript module
which uses the power of JavaScript Template literals (Template strings) to
create SQL components as building blocks.

Instead of inventing yet another template language, `SQLa` uses a set of naming
conventions plus the full power of JavaScript (and TypeScript) Template strings
to prepare the final SQL that will be loaded into the database.

## SQL rendering module organization

This SQL rendering library is meant to provide type-safe SQL code generation to
help prepare and reliably load SQL into multiple RDBMS dialects. The library is
not meant to replace or hide SQL, it's meant to make SQL easier to prepare and
load into an RDBMS.

### DDL (Data Definition Language)

- CREATE: This command is used to create the database or its objects (like
  table, index, function, views, store procedure, and triggers).
- DROP: This command is used to delete objects from the database.
- ALTER: This is used to alter the structure of the database.
- TRUNCATE: This is used to remove all records from a table, including all
  spaces allocated for the records are removed.
- COMMENT: This is used to add comments to the data dictionary.
- RENAME: This is used to rename an object existing in the database.

### DQL (Data Query Language)

- SELECT: It is used to retrieve data from the database.

### DML(Data Manipulation Language)

- INSERT : It is used to insert data into a table.
- UPDATE: It is used to update existing data within a table.
- DELETE : It is used to delete records from a database table.
- LOCK: Table control concurrency.
- CALL: Call a PL/SQL or JAVA subprogram.
- EXPLAIN PLAN: It describes the access path to data.

### PL (Procedural or Programming Language)

- BODY defines PL (stored function or stored procedure) body
- CONTRACT defines the header, parameter, etcs.

### DCL (Data Control Language)

- GRANT: This command gives users access privileges to the database.
- REVOKE: This command withdraws the user’s access privileges given by using the
  GRANT command.

### TCL (Transaction Control Language)

- COMMIT: Commits a Transaction.
- ROLLBACK: Rollbacks a transaction in case of any error occurs.
- SAVEPOINT: Sets a savepoint within a transaction.
- SET TRANSACTION: Specify characteristics for the transaction.

## TODO

- Migrate SQL statements to Axiom
- Migrate stored routines to Axiom
- Incorporate
  [Database Performance for Developers](https://use-the-index-luke.com/)
  suggestions into SQLa renderers so that developers just have to give feature
  flags and the proper SQL is generated for them.
- Incorporate
  [Evolutionary Database Design](https://martinfowler.com/articles/evodb.html)
  principles into SQL rendering infrastructure.
- See if
  [Database Change and Version Control for Teams](https://www.bytebase.com/_nuxt/img/main.a176dc4.webp)
  makes sense as a generator target.
- Learn from [DataHub](https://datahubproject.io/docs/features) about how to
  document and manage meta data ('data governance') artifacts and incorporate
  appropriate governance capabilities. These are DataHub features we should
  understand and perhaps push into DataHub:
  - Tracing lineage across platforms, datasets, pipelines, charts, etc.
  - Context about related entities across lineage
  - Capture and maintain institutional knowledge using folksonomic identifiers
    (tags) and taxonomies
  - Asset ownership by users and/or user groups
  - Fine-Grained Access Control with Policies
  - Metadata quality & usage analytics
- Integrate strategies from the following into the code generated by RF:
  - [Lesser Known PostgreSQL Features](https://hakibenita.com/postgresql-unknown-features)
  - [GitLab Migration Style Guide](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/development/migration_style_guide.html)
  - [Common DB schema change mistakes](https://postgres.ai/blog/20220525-common-db-schema-change-mistakes#case-1-schema-mismatch)
